todo:

overriden functions like checkdespawn try to use descriptive variable names
comment syntax update, line lengths, space after cast, standard multiline comment for changes docs,
plural reference to mob changes, big comment separator for inner classes. move instance variables to appropriate interface sections.
reorganize all custommobs to use new attacks thing and whatever (including blaze).
custom inner goals extending melee/ranged attack etc. dont need field for parent? just inherited this.entity?
private instead of protected where possible, dont target villagers
standardize multiline comment indent
stopped after: customentityenderman

make melee attacking goals just always account for y level. also mobs ignoring los should be able to hit through walls?
difference from vanilla?
check ranged attacking goals

consolidate all rangedattackgoals into one and just choose projectile?
    etiehr way, try to make blaze fireball goal more like the other ones, and separate melee attack goal?

followrange should be an instance variable instead of set through the getfollowrange function? be mindful of changing it during attacks?

increment attacks in attack method/goal instead of listener?

make buffmobs goal and possibly getbuffs less janky? such as not requiring manual e() activation and replacing of goal. and also buildbuffshashmap is awkward with having to manually reinput attack thresholds

things in terms of getattackthresholds instead of hardcoded

remove checkdespawn for mobs with follow distance <= 32



registerGenericAttribute() into util with static? pass in this. pulling attributemap in initattribute too

should reflection fields be static? in line with this: reflection util to hide try catch and stuff?

hoglins either have insane reach or jump boost if they can utilize it

mobs when hit by a player further than detection range/cant see: they teleport to player. teleport util?

is teleportneartarget really needed? just have y level teleport always? and make y level teleport to nearest player horizontally, not goal target

piglin frenzy when you open chest; make frenzy have explosive effects and set goal target if possible

skeletons less arrows

either make sure drowned tridents are hitscan or make pufferfish teleport and ignore y

some utils like spawn entity DO NOT have to be runnables; check performance and also check what runnables actually do (if theyre not async, theyre useless?)

wrap spawnentity in util function that creates runnable instance so we dont need awkward new every time?
    does spawnentity even need to be a runnable?
    wrap all runnables in util function that simply calls run/runtasktimer appropriately without ugly `new` starting the line?

all utils should be static




better documentation for removing y-level/los requirements for finding targets

change this.entity in goals to this.goalowner?

personalize all doc comments with mob name?

no blank lines after class declaration and before instance variable decalarations?

all -- and ++ to after if possible

all static initializer blocks before constructors?

listeners group by event?

util function/wrapper for find entity with default predicate (nmsworld.a(), and getentities() too? difference?)
    also find entity with predicate? to give meaning to the obfuscated function names

make all variables/parameters starting with entity not start with entity

overridden functions and stuff organize alphabetiocal?

nms, bukkit etc labels use underscore?

add polar bear?

better nametag names? like wtf is "insert name here"

standarize where to use final

standaridze static final (constant) capitalization
    external constant variable references use class name dot, but not internal? all caps to differentiate from local variable?
    but nested classes always use dot?

multi0pole ternary operators: align vertically

standardize randoms (global one? goals use entity's one?)

make sure all hurtbytarget goals have priorirty 0

line breaking complicated stuff with master level and and nested ors etc: indent accordingly like in custompathfindergoalhurtbytarget's callforhelp()

line breaks parameters (only function delcarations): break on new item, indent up to start of first parameter (re: custompathfindergoalnearestattackabetarget). same with arithmetic, nested functions in params etc.
rhs side of euqals red customentitycreeper explode()

investigate why we need to remove goals, particularly nearestattackabletarget.

all function comments + @override: comments on top?

remove D for nunmber literals doubles, and fix floating point rounding errors

check what happens when you dont allow friendly fire in custompathfindertargetcondition for bat and evoker

catalog and test super zombie health nerf + xp health gain

custom class for large fireball summon lightning and separate newpathfindergoalshootlargefireballs too; also test todo in lightning storm runnable

uncomment things in custompathfindergoalrangedattack after that

bL() doesnt seem to work sometimes? check again

does bL() need to be in icustomhostile? is it possible to globalize it like g() and d()?

investigate why some mobs dont need bl() (maxfallheight) or checkdespawn()

all util classes not abstract, but include private constryuctor

optimize predicates (not bedrock into base? etc)

standardize customentity.this vs this.customentity in inner goal classes

optimize fall damage algo further? check what happens in cobweb, sweet bush, scaffold

make thor lightning storm less constant and anIgnoreYing

thor general refactoring (sketchy ListenerLightningStrike.storm?)

all tickslived == 5 to spawn listener?
    but also try to move stuff from listeners like listenermobdeath to the mobs themselves. or mob spawn to tickslived==1 if it fires on rejoining world/restarting server

allow only one lightning effect storm and one tornado at a time with static variables or something

merge lightningeffectstorm and lightningstorm runnable with config for percentage actual lightning

try to copy spider code for moving fast in cobwebs?

husk instead of using anvil storms and sand storms create actual sandstorm runnable similar to tornado but without suction?  so just a lot of sand everywhere

zombie harming aec on death repurpose for death of witch?

bug: thor lightning persists on death

trident should not break blocks if thrown by player

channeling trident not working

where do player projectiles fall faster? seems to be impacting drowned tridents?

change TagsBlock.ENDERMAN_HOLDABLE blocks??? like end stone for example

comment/javadoc custom goals functions, including inner classes. see customentityblaze inner class for example

attacks comments/docs all into initattack method instead of increase attacks?

remove unnecessary casts???

util function for Bukkit.getServer().getOnlinePlayers().size()?

breakblocksaround goals make sure never remove blocks underneath unless intentional?

pay with targetchance in nearestattackabletarget; seems to try and stagger execution of goals?

iron golem bug s till tries to attack other entities after plaayer goes into creative (and also calls statmultiply from listener?)

fix iron golem spawning with iron blocks not removing iron blocks

villagerdamage and death listeners from raidandvillager to just mob damage? and rename raidandvillager to just raid

less hacky way for bukkitplayer set velocity runnable in playerdamagelistener? setDeltaMovement() from forge; check spigot equiv (for lauunching player)

iron golem sethelath in increashealthadd change to heal? and make sure works

balancing and small nerfs like ghast or something, more consistent but less endermites on enderman death etc, no magma cube spawns from blaze

make lava spread fast in overworld if possible?

swap grass and tall grass effects

remove blank line before cobnstrcutors/fields

why are we adding customhurtbytarget in vanillapthfindergoalsaccess? should we do it individually?

hoglin fire trails to custom goal?

phantom more linear size increases?

phantom check that die() override delay doesn't matter

lower magma cube spawn replacement chance? unless no spawn from blaze is enough of a nerf

check all the goals comments esp ranged to add clarification to y-level (all from the entities' overridden .g() or whatever), and make sure also specified regardless of LOS

make dragon fight logic cleaner, as well as ending messages? find exploits
    check out enderdragonbattle.class (in mcp: world/end/dragonfightmanager)

move some broadcast messages like the end of the dragon fight to disaply full screen? search google for how

piglin frenzy etc use proper getters and setters

piglin still attacks in creative (isinvulnerable check somewhere?)

bug: piglins seem to still drop item theyre holding; check other mobs too

fake illusioner little damage but big tankiness

creeper, phantom etc try having custom init for initFuse() or whatever instead of constructor and doing hacky reflection stuff in spawnentity. and pass entity instance to spawnentity instead of all this forced compatability with constructors? also dragon uuid? also fake illuisioner parent? or have like a second constrcutor without out the extra init calling this() with a default value for spawnentity or something

see if possible to create utils for shooting large and small fireballs etc?

getbuffedbymobs goal: increase attacks by a percentage

those thbat do something upon death, like ghasts abnd evokers that do it in tick(), check if there is a function that is called before death so don't have to do it in tick()

check weather changes works

try to debofuscate goals using idtech thing, experiment with changing seetime requirement etc

util functions to set (decrease or increase) max health and health?

more creative effects for mooshroom milking (maybe random sus stew with most chance for bad effects instead)

reduce magma cube jump distance so they dont overshoot following range

break blocks ruunnable instead of booleans to remove dluuids etc just pass in a static predicate to the constrcutor

bug: slimes and magma blocks sometimes just run away?

check balancing for slime/magma cube damage and melee attack radius

bug?: players still lose bubbles slower when fully submerged than when feet submerged

all mob expliosions and stuff make sure mobgriefing gamerule is respected. make util function for this?

players dont lose bubbles when feet submerged and not moving due to playermovelistener being used

mobs still taking magma block damage?

test teleportnear player goals like creeper, refine if needed

somehow nerf endermen drops. for example, drop ender shards (custom item?) which is crafted in 4 to make ender pearl. or just nerf the drop rates lol

early return guards for isclientside and stuff

funnier if sheep didnt seek players and just exploded?

would be funny to have some good mob have avoidentity goal like villager avoiding player or something

slimes and mamga cubes still get trapped in cobwebs; just break them?

guardians arent attacking out of water

tridents break block instead of explode

dragon does more when all crystals down? random spam blaze + exploding + aec harming + aec poison fireballs or more interesting? set phase charge player more?

mobs dont get affected by soul sand or magma blocks in water

make sure spawner mobs all have nametags (end etc.)

slightly less inaccuracy for player arrows, and add inaccuracy for player tridents/snowballs/eggs/all projectiles honestly including pearls?

surely crystal destruction is mini wither

speed up dragon fireball projectile speeds

bug: exiting rejoining causes withers to still aggro other mobs

standardize super in functions start/end

zoglin something more for 25 attacks now that throw players around is not a thing

change eggs lottery to json or something/loot table

spawn entity nametag option. make sure mobs spawning other mobs should have nametag

find better solution for bed destruction on respawn? see if possible to find bed respawned from, or maybe just set all bed blocks around spawn to air

remove all abilities to attack regardless of y level and just have more ways to bring player down/reach player?

create full documentation of changes from all /* comments and that google doc?






balance changes catalog:
mobs teleport to the player that hurt them if they are outside range/do not have line of sight
bats on first hit sumnmon 8-10 vanilla bats -> 6-8
bats vertical flight speed 0.7 -> 1
bats no longer can duplicate into a swarm of vanilla bats at a certain threshold
bats attack thresholds 3, 7, 12, 24, 32 -> 4, 8, 15, 28, 40
bats buff max strength 2 -> strength 1
bats buff arrow shoot cooldown 20/14/8 ticks -> 40/30/20
bats buff silverfish spawn cooldown 12 seconds -> 15
striders die faster (find number!)
elder guardians random despawn distance increased from 60 to 64 blocks (why did i ever make it 60???)
blazes attack thresholds 50, 125, 250 -> 100, 200, 300
blazes inaccuracy non rapidfire 0% -> 20% vanilla
blazes inaccuracy rapidfire 35% -> 250% vanilla
blazes normal attack cooldown 4 ticks -> 6; no pause between volleys remains unchanged
blazes rapidfire attack cooldown 3 ticks -> 4
blazes melee now considers y-level
(this was more of a bug) blaze melee cooldown 0 ticks -> 20
creepers default fuse 15 ticks -> 20
creepers explosion radius changed: base + (distance - 3) / 0.577 -> base + 1.5^(distance - 2) - 1
charged creepers health 200 -> 100
drowned attack cooldown 6 ticks -> 7
ender dragon does not shoot fireballs faster the less players there are and scaling based on crystals changed from 9 ticks per crystal to 10
ender dragon fireball chances tweaked from 65% normal, 22.5% power 2, 8.5% arrow barrage, 4% super -> 68% normal, 20% power 2, 8% arrow barrage, 4% super
end fight vex spawner spawn count 42 -> 36
endermen no longer summon endermites on death at >40 attacks
endermen endermite summon on tp chance 30% -> 10%
endermen no longer deaggro out of range
endermen look aggro distance 128 -> 64
endermen randomteleportonhit vertical range -32 to 32 -> 0 to 10
endermen pick up blocks chance per check 1/20 -> 1/5 (four times as frequent)
endermen put down blocks chance per check 1/2000 -> 1/500 (four times as frequent)
evokers, illusioners forget players after 60 ticks instead of 300
iron golem death silverfish 15 -> 10
mooshroom death explosion power 15 -> 10
killer rabbit move speed multiplier 1.4 -> 1.5
zoglin no longer throws players around erractically after 25 attack